Letter to Gazette
=================

Dear Sir,

We were struck by your opinion piece on Saturday.  This paragraph, near the
start of the article, intrigued us::

   The young people now coming of are the first in almost a century to
   embark life in a Bermuda where theit choices are narrowing, not
   expanding. 

We understand where this perception comes from, but feel that this
does not have to be the case in Bermuda.

The world is changing rapidly, a key driving force of this change is
the internet.  This can be good for Bermuda.

The article went on to say::

  Further educationand the chance to broaden cultural horizons beyond
  our shores is now a financial a financial impossibility for far too
  many gifted youngsters.

Young people today are faced with many opportunities to learn through
the internet.  There are amazing resources out there.  People can find
others that share their interests wherever they may live.  There are
others out there happy to be your mentors, to help you learn, to let
you help them learn too.

The article makes some excellent observations about schools.  There
are some skilled and dedicated people in our schools, often working
with poor resources.  The world is changing faster than curriculae can
hope to change.  Schools and colleges cannot do it alone.  

We see Bermudans helping each other and others daily.  It is central
to way many people live here.  

Bermuda also has many very talented and dedicated people here, more
than you would expect of any town of its size.  There are people with
time and resources to help others, yet it is often those with least
that help most.

Bermuda has a complicated history.  None of us can change that.  What
we can do is work together to turn this into the best place in the
world to live, for *everyone* that lives here.

On July 18th Nelson Mandela would have been been 96.  He was heavily
guided in his later life by a concept called "ubuntu".  It is a South
African word that does not translate well into English.  In Nelson
Mandela's words::

  Ubuntu does not mean that people should not enrich themselves. The
  question therefore is: Are you going to do so in order to enable the
  community around you to be able to improve?

On July 18th, why not find someone who needs your help and offer it?
Best of all, help someone learn, let someone teach you something.

Johny and Mary

PS no need to wait until July 18th

PPS I remember the Firkin Wine bar at college being renamed the
Mandela Bar.  You have no idea the fuss that debate caused.  It was
1981, or thereabouts.

It is now caled The Graduate.  Times change.

PPPS

Ubuntu `philosophy. <http://www.relandothompkins.com/philosophy/>`_

.. author:: Mary and Johnny
.. categories:: none
.. tags:: none
.. comments::
